In this video,
we're going to handle customers by email.
So we need to do some code refactoring.
Currently in our application,
if we perform multiple checkouts
with the same email address,
then we have multiple customer entries
in the customer table, and you may have seen this already.
So in this example, John Doe, he made multiple checkouts,
and so now we have multiple customers,
and we want to clean this up
and refactor the code to only have one customer.
So for our solution, we'll have a single customer
who's going to be associated with multiple orders.
What we'll do is we'll check the database
to see if the customer already exists
based on their email address.
If so, then we'll use the existing customer
from the database, else, we have a new customer.
Alrighty, so let's go through our development process.
So the first thing that we'll do
is remove existing data from the database tables.
We'll modify the database schema
to only allow unique email addresses.
Then we'll add a new method to the CustomerRepository
where we find by email,
so finding a user by their email address.
And we'll check to see if the customer already exists.
If so, then we'll use the existing customer.
Alrighty, so looking at step one,
remove existing data from database tables.
So this is SQL that we'll run in the MySQL Workbench.
So up top, we make use of USE full-stack-ecommerce
to make use of that given schema.
So then with this SET FOREIGN_KEY_CHECKS=0,
this basically temporarily disables foreign key checks,
as far as the referential integrity
between these different tables,
customers, orders, order items.
This is useful when you need to delete data
and not have to worry about the foreign key checks.
So this is okay since we're removing
all the data from these related tables.
And so now we use the TRUNCATE command
to remove all the rows from our table.
So I'll do a TRUNCATE on customer,
orders, order_item, and address,
and these are all of the tables
related to our customer checkout.
Now you may wonder about TRUNCATE versus DELETE.
So in general, TRUNCATE is faster than DELETE
for very large data sets.
And also, TRUNCATE resets the AUTO_INCREMENT
back to the starting value.
And there are some other subtle differences between the two,
but here we'll just make use of TRUNCATE for this.
In step two, we'll modify the database schema
to only allow unique email addresses.
So here at the bottom,
I have this ALTER TABLE customer ADD UNIQUE email.
So what I'm doing here
is I'm setting up a database constraint
to only allow unique email addresses.
If you try to enter a duplicate email address,
then the MySQL database
will actually throw an error in that given case.
So here we're just adding some more database constraints
on our given table.
In step three, we need to add a new method
to the CustomerRepository.
So Spring Data REST and Spring Data JPA
supports query methods, so Spring will construct a query
based on method naming conventions.
So here we have this Customer findByEmail.
In the background, Spring will generate the appropriate SQL.
And this is where we have some of that Spring magic
as far as doing that work for us.
But let's kind of dig behind the scenes
and kind of see what happens.
So we need to find a customer based on their email address,
and we have this new method here,
Customer findByEmail, and we pass in theEmail.
Behind the scenes,
Spring will execute a query similar to this,
SELECT * FROM Customer, where email equals theEmail.
And theEmail is the actual value
that the user passes in when they call this given method.
Now this given method here, if they don't find a match,
then this method will actually return null.
In our placeOrder method,
we had all of our code from before,
and I'll kind of zoom in on this new section
that we just added here for this given feature.
So what I like to do
is check if this is an existing customer.
So first off, I get the customer's email address.
And then I make use of that new method
that I just created in the CustomerRepository.
I'll say customerRepository.findByEmail, I pass in theEmail,
and that will give me an actual customer from the database.
And remember, this method will return null if not found.
So then I can use this in some logic coming up here.
I can say if customer from database is not equal to null,
that means, hey, we did, we found somebody,
then let's go ahead and assign them accordingly.
So here I have customer equals customer from database.
And that's it, and I continue on
with my normal order processing here.
Alrighty, so let's go ahead and move into the next video,
and let's write some code.